Adam Cheng  0:00  
Just one more. So, I guess I just want to ask if you could describe just a little bit about your workflow when dealing with sequence data. So, like, what does it look like currently? And without, I guess, this this new sort of DEFT  system, what have you done before in cases where, let's say, you wanted to find these pause sites, and what are sort of the major pain points that you've encountered when trying to, I guess, extract insights from from data sets. Right.

davidbentley1  0:31  
Okay. So previously we've you know identified DNA sequence elements of interest, and analyze them in quite conventional ways to find you know logos of enriched bases at particular positions, which sometimes can generate consensus motifs, which are always short, fairly simple sequences, and they are, you know, they describe your your motifs at at some level of detail. Sometimes there's a very clear consensus. Sometimes it's not, and that's been been the limit of our analysis, and you know, to a large extent, the the field as a whole is searching for these short motifs, whereas Deft has allowed us to iteratively look for new features in the DNA that are beyond short motif sequences,

Adam Cheng  1:45  
got it.

davidbentley1  1:46  
And that has, in our case, been fairly transformative.

Speaker 1  1:50  
And so, has it been a fairly manual process beforehand? Was there any sort of software tools that exist? No, no.

davidbentley1  1:56  
There's there's there's software out there for looking for these consensus motifs, and I can send the. I mean, I haven't personally used them, but bioinformatics people that I collaborate with have. There's one. I do you want me to look

Speaker 1  2:14  
it up? Yeah, I can send it if it's off the top of your head. If not, no problem.

davidbentley1  2:19  
I think there's one called GG logo. There's, there's, you know, these are pretty old-fashioned motif hunting things that have been around for years, but are fairly standard.

Speaker 1  2:30  
Okay, but

davidbentley1  2:32  
I can certainly send you the name.

Speaker 1  2:34  
Sure. Yeah, maybe maybe later would be great. Thank you. Okay, sounds good. So yeah, we'll just move on to like the next think aloud portion. So this is where I guess you'll be interacting with the interface. I'll give a brief explanation of an overview of the interface, but essentially you'll just be I guess clicking around, taking a look at the different elements, and verbalizing what you're thinking, so I guess what you see on on on the screen sort of verbalize how you're thinking through each component, how you're making sense of what you see on the screen. Is if there's anything confusing to you, if you have any thoughts as you interact, just like anything that comes to mind, just verbalize would be great.

davidbentley1  3:20  
Okay,

Speaker 1  3:21  
and we're going to do

davidbentley1  3:22  
that by you sharing your screen. So maybe if

Speaker 1  3:25  
you would share your screen, that would be great. So I could also take a look at what you're looking at. But first, I'll I'll just give a brief overview. So once you click that link, you'll be sent to this page. So

davidbentley1  3:36  
so which so I have a there's a link in the chat which is the forms,

Speaker 1  3:42  
right? So on on the form, there should be a a link to this. Yes, I get

davidbentley1  3:46  
it. Okay. Yes. All right. Fine. I see. I'm seeing the same thing you're seeing now.

Speaker 1  3:53  
And do you see my screen right now?

davidbentley1  3:55  
Yes, I do now.

Speaker 1  3:59  
Great.

davidbentley1  3:59  
It's for whatever reason on my. I'm sorry if this is me. That on my screen I'm seeing the left half of the decision tree, but it looks like, but not the yes.

Speaker 1  4:16  
So there should be. Oh, you can zoom in and out of the tree using, I guess your trackpad or mouse, if you have

davidbentley1  4:23  
one. Okay. Ah, okay. I I'm with you. Okay. Yeah, and I'll

Speaker 1  4:29  
just give a brief overview of like what is in this interface. So, as I mentioned, you can sort of zoom in and out of of the sort of main canvas page that holds this decision tree. You can sort of drag and drop to go take a look at the different sides of this, and each node sort of is interactive. So we can hover over them and click on the nodes. And once we okay,

davidbentley1  4:56  
let me click. Yeah, that's kind of small for my old eyes. Sorry. Let me see if I can zoom in a bit, just so that I can read what you're showing me there. All right. So you say. So I'm reading that rationale. That's very nice to see.

Speaker 1  5:17  
Yeah. So yeah, there'll be sort of a sidebar here with a whole bunch of information, you can you can go through it in a little bit. Okay, there'll be all this information. Each of these pieces of information has like a little question mark next to it. If you need more explanation of what what that does, and on the left side here, you can see there's some options for modifying some some viewing depth cutoff information, there's multiple sort of display modes as well. So we'll have you explore this part of it first, and then we'll have you interact with sort of as you see on the bottom right. There's a sort of ask AI button, and we can interact with an agent that you can either ask questions to or sort of inject advice to as well. So we'll have you do that next, and then lastly, we'll have you take a look at a third page, sort of looking at how you might want to generate a tree in the future.

davidbentley1  6:15  
Okay, so this is so basically this is me exploring a pre-made tree.

Speaker 1  6:23  
Yes. So this is one of the data sets that you'd provided us in the past. So hopefully there you have some familiarity with it, but you don't have to sort of necessarily make any insights. Just just see how you feel about the interface. All right.

davidbentley1  6:37  
Fine. So I'm going to share my screen with you, and you're gonna basically, and then I'm gonna do a bit of exploration, and you can me just get my screen sorted out here. Okay. Now,

Speaker 1  7:06  
yes, it might be better for some reason.

davidbentley1  7:08  
My screen, I only you're like what I'm seeing is just off to one side, and I'm not.

Evgeny Saveliev  7:14  
Yeah,

Speaker 1  7:15  
maybe if you just maximize the that window, it might be a bit

davidbentley1  7:20  
okay.

Speaker 1  7:21  
Yeah, just click on the the the green sort of a that green maybe the green circle on the on the sort of top left of that of that window, and we could map see see the full screen.

davidbentley1  7:46  
Ah, click on the green dot. Okay, there we go.

Speaker 1  7:49  
Yeah, and then you might want to sorry, you might want to refresh the page just by doing a command R. Yeah, great.

davidbentley1  7:57  
Like so.

Speaker 1  7:58  
Yes.

davidbentley1  7:59  
Okay, so now I can scroll across the decision tree. Great. Now I don't know what your this. I'm just going to say the the probability threshold for classifying samples in a class leaf nodes above is. So I could a decision cutoff. See, so you're talking to somebody who's not familiar with decision trees before my experience with this one. So, does this mean you're more stringent if you're higher than 50%

Speaker 1  8:29  
So yes, yeah.

davidbentley1  8:31  
So I could toggle that, and then my tree is going to change.

Speaker 1  8:37  
Correct. Yeah.

davidbentley1  8:38  
So what if I'm only interested in features that give, say, 70-5% or more discrimination between the two classes? Then I would set that at 70-5%

Speaker 1  8:52  
Yes.

davidbentley1  8:52  
Oh, that's cool. Okay. So then I I scrolled it. Then then I press return.

Speaker 1  8:58  
Yeah, you can double click on the node or yeah, okay. Set that's whatever you want. Yeah.

davidbentley1  9:05  
So if I set take this node, and it says the class is 48.4% that means what? For that's it's sort of 5050 pauses and non pauses. Yes. Okay. So, in other words, it's not particularly discriminative, but it does something, you know, right. And now, if I want, so I'm trying to figure out how do I use this decision cutoff if I want to use it to modify the stringency of the tree, what would I do there?

Speaker 1  9:49  
So when you say the stringency of using basically how

davidbentley1  9:53  
well, okay, I want to yes. So I want to know how I modify. It seems like that that by modifying the decision cutoff, it can make a pretty big difference to how this tree operates, right?

Speaker 1  10:10  
Yes. So the leaf nodes, sort of the bottommost nodes in sort of green or red, would be classified differently based off of that cutoff. Okay.

davidbentley1  10:20  
So I'd like to to try that. So I'd now like to move my decision cutoff to 75.3% How do I do that?

Speaker 1  10:28  
So yeah, you've done that already in in in setting. If you drag if you drag the decision cutoff back and forward, you'll see the color of the notes change. So it it updates as you're as you're dragging it. You see, okay.

davidbentley1  10:44  
Oh wow! So that's it's so the decision tree gets modified in real time as I drag my decision cutoff.

Speaker 1  10:58  
That's correct.

davidbentley1  11:00  
Well, that's a pretty cool. So that means you, so you can sort of fiddle your decision tree to what you want to, you know, what you you desire by by sliding that decision cutoff.

Speaker 1  11:17  
Yes,

davidbentley1  11:19  
that seems like a like it could be useful.

Speaker 2  11:21  
Yeah.

davidbentley1  11:23  
All right. So then I'm going to. This is okay. Pause to plus one. Create a binary feature, right? So I'm just going to go over here and look at this first one.

Speaker 3  11:42  
Yeah. One. Now,

davidbentley1  11:45  
when it says 80.6% there. Okay, what I'm not seeing here, or maybe you could point it out to me, is I see that there's a class that says 80.6% That means 80.6% of those sequences are pauses, or they're non pauses, or they're or what?

Speaker 1  12:05  
Yeah, so there would be pauses in this case, just the way the classes are. Oh, because that's class one is the

davidbentley1  12:10  
par plus p. Okay, now percent is great, but I'd like to know the number as well.

Speaker 1  12:16  
I guess maybe you could just scroll down on the sidebar on the right.

davidbentley1  12:25  
Ah, okay, over here. Oh, so now, okay, now I'm seeing it says 2190 samples. Class one is 17 160-five Yes, that's what I'm seeing here, 80.6% Excellent. That's that's great. That's that that that's very useful. Wow. Then there's this the Ginny index. Now, so so what happens if I slide that? I don't really know what what that is, but what happens if I slide the the Gini index? You see, you're talking to somebody who doesn't really understand decision trees, but knows that they're useful.

Speaker 1  13:09  
Got it. So, do you notice the little question marks next to the?

davidbentley1  13:14  
Yep.

Speaker 1  13:14  
Next there, it should give you all of the idea. Yeah, it should give you a brief explanation. But

davidbentley1  13:22  
yeah, okay, right. Ginny impurity measures how mixed the classes are at each node. Lower values mean purer, more homogeneous splits. Okay, so this

Speaker 1  13:34  
is sort of just sort of informational and tells you how the decision tree actually came to this split, so it's sort of a post, sort of it it'll it'll tell you sort of the overall, I guess the purity, but it it's not a value that you can sort of modify directly here.

davidbentley1  13:55  
I see. So there there is a sort of slider here. It looks like I see, but that's that's not really something I can slide. It's just a report. That's what the mix. I get it. I get it. Okay, this looks great. It looks like you can get a very nice description of what's going on at each node from this panel on the right hand side. So, so very so that that's excellent. So you can really understand what what has happened at each node. I think that's great. I tell you one thing. I mean, this may be beyond the scope of your project here, but the one of the powerful things about a decision tree is it identifies different classes of data points. So there may be, for example, a subset of pauses in this population that have particular properties that are identified at a particular node, and we, and they might be particular of of some particular interest. Could is there a way for us to say, for example, at this node here, there are 14 130-four samples. There's 13 130-nine sequences in class one. Is there a way for us to pull those 13 139 sequences out.

Evgeny Saveliev  15:43  
Yes, Adamassumias

davidbentley1  15:46  
That would be very cool to be able to do, because then we could take those and maybe there's some other analysis we'd want to do with them.

Speaker 1  15:57  
Got it. Okay, that's a good good feedback to have.

Evgeny Saveliev  16:02  
I don't know if Adam has shown you. You've shown the kind of idea of sending feedback about individual parts. Yeah, so

Speaker 1  16:09  
I guess we'll get into that just now, actually. But I guess right before that, do you have any other thoughts on like how it how it has been to sort of like just interact with the different nodes, perhaps just take a look look at the information. How how does it feel to to to click around? Does it sort of yeah easy to use?

davidbentley1  16:32  
Yeah. Well, I think the feature of being able to click on any node and to get all of the information easily from this panel on the right is great. I think it's I think it's superb. I mean, because it's it's all it's all there. And now let me see whether there's anything there that I would like to see that I'm not seeing. We've got a good description there. We've got the number, the percent, the split. I think this is really good. I think this is this is this this really helps one to understand and extract the maximum information out of the tree. The one thing one might want is, you know, you study this tree and you say, ah, this particular class here looks interesting to me. I'd like to pull those sequences out and and look do something else with them. So now I just notice I've clicked on this, and this red path has been highlighted. How did how did that happen?

Speaker 1  17:49  
So since that's a leaf node that you clicked on, it'll show you sort of the whole decision path of how it got to that.

davidbentley1  17:56  
Ah, I see. So this what is what happens when you click on the leaves,

Speaker 1  18:01  
correct. Yes,

davidbentley1  18:03  
and the thickness of the why are the is there a significance to the fact that they are red? Is that because there is a path that leads to classes that are enriched for pauses? I guess so. This one's got 81 82% pauses in it. I see,

Speaker 1  18:19  
right. So that that red is sort of just the highlight, the exact path that goes from the root to that particular decision. So that particular classification leaf node, and it'll it just helps sort of you think it help you visualize that a little better. I

davidbentley1  18:36  
see, and the thickness of the red path sort of refers to to what fraction of the total is in it.

Speaker 1  18:43  
Correct. Yes,

davidbentley1  18:44  
that's cool. Now, what about over on this other side, where where I see that? I mean, this is very much. I see that over here on the on the left hand side is where we are exploring classes that are enriched for non pauses rather than pauses. This is so totally trivial in a way, but it might be nice to have the path highlighted in a different color. It maybe if you're enriching for class two rather than class

Speaker 1  19:23  
one. Okay, yeah, that's that's good feedback to have.

davidbentley1  19:27  
I mean, I guess the other thing here is Adam. You know, the user here is going to look at this. He's going to be able to to really easily delve in and understand it in detail, and then potentially want to make some figures for a paper. Is there? Have you thought about that yet?

Speaker 1  19:55  
Yeah. So there is sort of a bit an assistance. So if you actually click on the bottom right. There's a sort of Ask AI feature. Yeah. So this is an inbuilt assistant here where you can ask questions. Like, let's say you were confused about how a certain part of this tree worked, or certain certain node. Maybe you wanted to know more about the the reasoning behind that. You can go ask any questions to this. So in the future, perhaps it could also generate things like figures for you as well. Perhaps code. Perhaps it could do all that for you. But I guess for now, maybe you could interact with this in some way. Perhaps maybe if you could just like submit some sort of question to it. If or what I say, can

davidbentley1  20:40  
you make can you make a PowerPoint file with this? Can I can I ask a

Evgeny Saveliev  20:44  
quick question, Adam? So in our existing system, this AI conversation thing it already exists and it already can do basically anything. So you can you can safely assume because it it already does stuff like you know generate the tree, start the training. It can do everything, so that already does exist. So just in case it helps. So yes, it can generate a a figure if you wanted to as well.

davidbentley1  21:10  
So what what would happen if I typed in a question here? Can you generate a figure? Would it?

Speaker 1  21:17  
So it it's right now this this is only text. So it probably give you maybe some maybe Python code or something depending on how you ask it.

davidbentley1  21:26  
Right.

Evgeny Saveliev  21:27  
This this is just a prototype thing. This is not hooked up to the real podcast system.

davidbentley1  21:31  
Yes, I'm I'm with you now. Could one do you know sort of little more trivial things like you know can I change the font in these here, can I make it bigger? Can I change its color? You know, stop. You know, so you know, it might be trivial, but for for the purpose of a presentation, it could be very helpful not to have to redo all that.

Speaker 1  21:56  
Got it. So it's more about, I guess, helping the user understand the information provided, and we're then making, I guess, dynamic edits to the tree itself.

davidbentley1  22:05  
So I think it's doing a really nice job for helping one to extract the information there in an easily digestible form, because all of this all of this information in the right hand panel, I think is is is very easy to understand.

Speaker 1  22:27  
Got it. So, so I guess perhaps now, just in the interest of time, maybe we'll just do one last thing here. So, let's say you wanted to submit a piece of advice to the system. So let's say there was a particular node you wanted to look at, and there's something a little bit wrong about it. It doesn't have to be like necessarily correct at this point. Just perhaps you could go through the process of actually submitting a piece of advice. So you can maybe pick any particular node. Doesn't really matter which one. So maybe let's say you're at pause 49 is G already. So we could just take a look at that. Yeah. So if you like hit shift and then click on the node,

davidbentley1  23:10  
shift and click on the node. Okay.

Speaker 1  23:13  
It should attach that as sort of context to this conversation. So if you were to perhaps want to submit some sort of change about this node. I guess how would you how would you do that? Maybe what's something you'd say, and then maybe you could just type that out and hit the sort of green button, and yeah, just see. But I

Speaker 4  23:32  
mean,

davidbentley1  23:35  
I mean the the the feature that is being used here. That's not. I mean, that's something that has been. I don't want to change that. I mean, it's been discovered and it's been shown to be a fairly effective discriminator. So I don't. I wouldn't question that.

Speaker 1  23:57  
So there. So would there not be a case? I suppose where. I guess the the AI model created some sort of feature, and you notice something is not necessarily biologically correct about it, and you want to sort of change something about that feature.

davidbentley1  24:17  
Well, I am a little. It's a little hard for me to. I mean, I'm not seeing anything in this tree that looks like total nonsense. If that's what you're asking,

Speaker 1  24:34  
I see. Okay.

davidbentley1  24:35  
You know, this, of course, this is a tree that we've had quite a bit of experience with and have looked at and but you know it's you know in a lot of ways I mean you know it's what the deft the features that deft identifies are pretty unbiased. ones that are simply in the data, and so it's not a case of there being some unreasonable, unbiological reasoning going on here. I mean, these are features that either work to discriminate pauses from non-pauses, or they don't.

Speaker 1  25:22  
I see.

davidbentley1  25:22  
So it's sort of like I sort of my my feeling is it's really not in my business to tell the LLM that this feature it shouldn't be using this feature or it should be modifying it. I want it to be as as unbiased as possible, and just and just tell me these are features that discriminate the best. Now, I guess what I don't know is you know could it could it be that at some at this point in the tree it could have found some even more discriminative feature, but I guess I don't know that, and I trust it to have done a good job and found the best one. Yeah, and it to have worked optimally.

Evgeny Saveliev  26:18  
Yeah, so David, David is right, Adam, as well, because this is like there's no way to like directly really edit the tree either. The best we can do is collect feedback about a certain feature from someone like David, and then give that to the LLM, say, okay, this feature is bad. Don't propose this kind of feature, and then retrain the whole tree from scratch. It's going to be a completely different new tree. Bear in mind, like we can't really like plug and play with the tree directly as such. I mean, we could, but it's not theoretically justifiable to do that.

davidbentley1  26:52  
I mean, the the other thing I I mean I can possibly think of is you know I look through this tree. I'm having it explained to me in very clearly and. and for me to decide, ah, this class right here looks cool to me, and then I, you know, could I ask it tell me more about these sequences? I mean, or or something like that. But I, you know, that that's you know, in in theory, you know, I might decide this is a class that I want to dig deeper on. I don't know what, but that's probably I don't know beyond deft. I don't know.

Evgeny Saveliev  27:28  
No, no, it's completely completely feasible, David. So again, so deft is just a tree, and we have a separate agent that can operate on the tree and on the data. It can it can do that. Yes. Yes. Just so so that

davidbentley1  27:41  
so so a great follow up to Deft would be Deft identifies a particular class. You decide this class is of particular biological interest. You extract that class and then ask, I suppose, some other tools to say, what can you tell me about these sequences,

Speaker 1  28:02  
got it.

davidbentley1  28:02  
You know, are they all located? Are they enriched for being positioned in exons rather than introns? Are they enriched for being in highly expressed genes versus poorly expressed genes? Are they enriched for being at the three prime end of a gene versus the five prime energy, anything like that would be super cool.

Speaker 1  28:23  
Got it. Sounds good. Yeah. So just just in the interest of time, I know. Do you have a couple more minutes?

davidbentley1  28:32  
Sure. Sure.

Speaker 1  28:32  
Okay. Great.

davidbentley1  28:33  
No. No. Listen, Adam. This is, I think, very, very worthwhile, and what you've done here is is very useful and easy, even for somebody like me to use.

Speaker 1  28:45  
Got it. Thank you. Yeah. So yeah, you can go ahead and stop sharing the screen for now. I guess there's if you go up to the next page on the survey, there's just some follow up questions. So there should be some numerical questions you can answer first, and then once you're done with those numerical ones, just let me know, and we can do some. This is

davidbentley1  29:05  
beyond okay. All right. Yeah. Okay.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
