davidbentley1  0:00  
Not seeing how to. I'm on this final, this additional feedback page. I'm not seeing where I can write stuff.

Speaker 1  0:06  
Yeah. So you'll just give that to me verbally, whatever you like to say. Yeah. Yeah.

davidbentley1  0:09  
Well, all I'm saying there is, yeah. You know, a different. Let's see. Is that help with you know with making figures a figure from it would would be good?

Speaker 1  0:34  
Okay, got it.

davidbentley1  0:36  
Because these are abs. This is absolutely the kind of thing one would have as a figure in in a paper, but you'd want to be able to tailor it to highlight, you know, certain aspects, keep certain classes that are identified, highlight them, you know, make them look pretty.

Speaker 1  0:56  
Sounds good, John. Do you think there's any other, I guess, follow-ups that we should ask beyond sort of what Professor Bentley has already provided us with? The no, I think I think that's that sounds good. Well, in terms of the figures, David, do would you normally then just put those straight into a PowerPoint?

davidbentley1  1:19  
I I would, but you know, I'm a bit of a dinosaur. Other people would use something more sophisticated, you know.

Speaker 1  1:25  
Okay. And

Evgeny Saveliev  1:28  
overall, can you extract an SVG or something out of your thing? Because if you could, or even some HTML with CSS representation, because then the agent can tweak that as David desires, right? So it just needs one starting output, and then agent can tweak it, change phones, anyhow.

Speaker 1  1:50  
Yep, got it. So overall, you basically you have you have a pretty high level of trust in the system and the actual AI agent that's making these generations. So you sort of feel that the information it would provide is accurate, and you'd be able to trust sort of what what it tells you. And if you were to have a conversation with it, you would trust sort of the the things that it's telling you.

davidbentley1  2:15  
Well, I mean, I've got to believe what it tells me in terms of what the path was to reach a decision, right, and what what the feature was in the description of it. I I just trust that. So yeah,

Speaker 2  2:33  
sounds good.

davidbentley1  2:36  
But you know, but then it then it's of course up to the biologist to decide. You know. what's significant, what's interesting, but I thought this was in terms of helping one to navigate a decision tree when one isn't necessarily very familiar with them. I thought it was pretty darn good.

Speaker 1  3:00  
Great, thank you so much. Yeah, so I think that's all we'll go over for today. But thank you so much for the time, and yeah, we'll stay in contact for yeah the I guess next steps.

davidbentley1  3:13  
Okay, okay, nice work, Adam.

Speaker 1  3:15  
All right, thank you so much, mr. Friendly. Thank you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
