Adam Cheng  0:00  
So just I guess right before that, there's just like a brief question about I think we discussed it a little bit already. You said you've seen previous implementations of like the deft interface, but not like super familiar. So I guess does your work day to day like involve a lot of like I guess in the weeds investigation of these like sequence like pause pause site, non pause site datasets. Have you interacted much with that before?

Ryan Sheridan  0:26  
I've done a lot of work with David on the pause sites, but for kind of the sequence part of the analysis, we've done some before, but not as detailed as you know what Nico has done with Deft. So it hasn't been a main focus, has it?

Adam Cheng  0:44  
But I guess from that experience, are there any like specific pain points, or like I guess could you just walk me through that process first? Like just, I mean, maybe even on a very basic level of like what it looks like when you try to investigate that data

Ryan Sheridan  1:00  
for this DNA sequence motifs around paw sites,

Adam Cheng  1:04  
yes.

Ryan Sheridan  1:04  
Oh, I guess maybe. I mean, one thing when I've looked at kind of the depth like manuscript and the results from the past that I think would be really useful is being able to compare between conditions how different features change. So, for example, if you have a tree based, you know, that's trained based on like a control data set, and you get a set of features, being able to quantify how those features change. If you then take sort of a treatment data set, does that make sense?

Adam Cheng  1:41  
Yeah, I see. Yeah, I

Ryan Sheridan  1:42  
mean, previous analysis that we've done is a lot simpler than what Def does, where right we identify all these pauses and then we've looked at base frequencies around those pauses. We've tried to find motifs, but we haven't used anything that's produced, you know, results that are as useful as what Deft has produced.

Adam Cheng  2:08  
Got it. Yeah, that's one of the things we've been looking into, like trying to do some sort of comparison between different generations of the tree. I think a big challenge with that is Deft, the way it's architected, tends to make, you know, quite large changes, and there tends to be quite big differences in even the whole architecture of a tree between generations, depending on you know how you prompt it and the the parameters you give it initially. So it is somewhat of a challenge to do sort of a traditional comparison sometimes between generations, but it is something that yeah is being kept in mind, and we're looking into. Yeah,

Ryan Sheridan  2:42  
can I ask one more question? I mean, is it possible to just take a tree that was trained on the control data and then run all the sites from a different data set through it and then see how everything filters down to the leaves? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, like what what features still discriminate, and which ones don't? Yeah. So

John Dudley  3:05  
keeping the tree the same by changing the data. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Adam Cheng  3:09  
Yeah.

John Dudley  3:10  
Okay.

Adam Cheng  3:10  
Yeah. That's definitely very possible. Yeah, and that's

John Dudley  3:13  
much much easier, I think, Ryan. Yeah.

Adam Cheng  3:15  
Great. Yeah. So I'll just walk you through that tree, that's in the link that I sent you. So very briefly, you'll be sent to this sort of main like canvas page where you can see this data set laid out in a tree. It's sort of fully interactive. You can zoom in and out. You can sort of drag and look at different parts of the tree. You can sort of collapse different parts using these like semicircles at the bottom, and each node is sort of interactive in that you can sort of click on it, and it'll give you a sidebar of information that you can go and investigate. And there's also some additional sort of customization available on sort of the left hand side of the screen here, so we can take a look at that as well. And lastly, there's on the bottom right sort of a embedded AI agent here, where you can go do two things here. So, firstly, you can ask questions to it. So, if you're confused about aspects of the tree or want some explanation about the data or how the tree works, you can go ahead and ask the agent that, and you can attach sort of specific nodes that you're curious about to the conversation by click holding down shift and then clicking on the node, or you can sort of try to submit some sort of advice to the agents as well about things that you want to change in perhaps a future generation of the tree, and you can just write down, hey, I want maybe X Y Z changed, and then it'll it'll it'll sort of summarize that advice and package it up for the for the next generation to to to have. So we can run through all of this. Basically, I guess what would be helpful for us is if you could just share your screen as you're going through this interface and basically think aloud through the different steps that you might take. How you're maybe making sense of the data. What is easy to use? What is confusing? And basically, anything, any thoughts that are going through your head as you like sort of explore the different the different features would be great to hear. So, all right, yeah, basically. And there's no main sort of like objective. We just want you to sort of investigate the the tree and the data and talk through what you're seeing.

Ryan Sheridan  5:25  
Okay. Cool. Okay. So I'll share. Can you guys see the right window? Okay. Is it fully loaded? I see a big blast.

Adam Cheng  6:15  
Sorry, you might have to just refresh. Yeah,

Ryan Sheridan  6:17  
refresh it. Oh, because I resized it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So I mean, I think the first thing I would want is like, what what are the the main features? So I mean, should this.

Adam Cheng  6:44  
Sorry, it might be a slightly slow just because of the API currently, but yeah, it'll it'll get there.

Ryan Sheridan  6:49  
Yeah, I mean, you know, so when I look at it, there's a lot of things, obviously. So my main question is, yeah, right, like what are the the most important features that it pulled out? And I guess the agent should be able to. I mean, there are these green ones, I suppose, right?

Adam Cheng  7:04  
Right.

Ryan Sheridan  7:04  
Like,

Adam Cheng  7:15  
yeah, and you can resize the window if you if you need as well.

Speaker 1  7:18  
Yeah.

Adam Cheng  7:44  
So I guess when you're looking at when you ask that question, are you sort of just trying to have the agent be able to sort of take out the work for you to sort of narrow down like your focus on I guess what is most important to look at and like try to have it give you a couple nodes or perhaps like pathways that are important.

Ryan Sheridan  8:05  
Yeah, that was initially the thought. This is a lot of text, though. But yeah, I suppose I mean visually, though it is obvious, right? These are because it's colored based on you know how well it discriminates, right? So, you know, visually, that's perhaps easier. You know, like this one looks like the best,

Adam Cheng  8:27  
right?

Ryan Sheridan  8:27  
So. This is a perhaps a oops. This is perhaps like a something a bug or something for six.

Adam Cheng  9:19  
Yeah, it's sort of just the the name the since the root nodes don't have since the leaf nodes don't have any names it's sort of just described as like root and then either like a series of L's and R's that describe how it gets there. So it's all the way on the left. So it's L L L L L.

Ryan Sheridan  9:34  
Oh, I see. I see. I see. Okay.

Adam Cheng  9:45  
So I guess does this way of laying out the decision path, basically how you get from the root node to the to the end of the tree there, does that sort of make sense, and is it laid out in a way that is intuitive?

Ryan Sheridan  9:58  
Yeah, yeah, visually, you know, I like it a lot. Yeah, like how you can highlight the past. It's like this way. Yeah, relevant literature. Yeah, and then class one and class two should be what's a pause and what's not a pause. So that's something that I would just know when I load the data. Obviously, I guess that's sort of something that I would have, you know, if I were using this, you know, really right. I load the data myself. The class identity I would know that'd be like coming from my data set, I suppose, on the table.

Adam Cheng  11:05  
Yeah, and I guess maybe do you think you would any of the features on like the left hand side where you can adjust certain parameters of the tree? Do you think that would be helpful? So there's there's a viewing depth, decision cutoff, and a couple. So this

Ryan Sheridan  11:19  
affects how the points get filtered through the leaves? Oh, I see. Oh, does this just does this change just the color? I guess is that right?

Adam Cheng  11:34  
So yeah, I guess it'll it'll tell you sort of what what changes about the classification. Yeah.

Ryan Sheridan  11:40  
Oh, I see. Class one, class two. Yeah, and that's just based on the fraction of each class in the leaf, I suppose.

Adam Cheng  11:55  
Right.

Ryan Sheridan  11:56  
Is that right? Yeah. I see. Why are these grayed out now?

Adam Cheng  12:13  
So I guess now that we've selected that sort of new quote-unquote leaf node because we've only set it to a depth of four on the tree, so this would be like the bottommost leaf node. So basically, since you're selecting it, it's sort of showing you how it gets to that particular node from the root.

Ryan Sheridan  12:35  
Oh, I see. Okay, never mind. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. It's because I had this selected. Yeah, that makes sense.

Adam Cheng  13:02  
I guess. another question we would have is so obviously the sometimes the the the AI sort of chat feature could be more or less useful. Right now, it's using quite a small model, so it's it might not be 100 as accurate as we'd like it to be. But yeah, in the case of you wanting to ask it like questions, I guess firstly questions like what would generally be like the kinds of questions you might want to ask.

Ryan Sheridan  13:29  
I mean, you know, biological significance of each of the features. So, you know, like. I mean, because it seems like it's searching the literature, or has the ability to.

Adam Cheng  13:58  
Yeah, so that's that's actually the one thing here that's not fully implemented, so it'll it will search the literature and have like be able to maybe pull up like papers that are most relevant to like the decision it made for that particular node. But right now, it's that's not fully implemented. It does do this sort of on the on the back ends when we generate the tree, but for this particular agent. So yeah,

Ryan Sheridan  14:25  
it would be helpful

Adam Cheng  14:26  
to have have that, basically.

Ryan Sheridan  14:30  
Oh yeah, definitely. Yeah.

Adam Cheng  14:43  
And do you think there would be cases in which you'd want to submit some sort of like advice based off of your sort of you know expert knowledge about like the dataset and the and the and the field like perhaps the AI like did something wrong or you think some change needs to be made to the tree, would that be something that you think would happen, and you would you would want to like you know talk to the agent about?

Ryan Sheridan  15:08  
Yeah, that's a good idea. So what's this? Yeah, I mean, one thing obviously might be a feature. Yeah. somebody might think, "Oh, this seems like perhaps a technical artifact. So, I mean, is that? I'm trying to think. Is that sort of what you're saying? Like, oh, this feature doesn't make sense.

Adam Cheng  15:35  
Right. Yeah. Not

Ryan Sheridan  15:36  
interesting. So, what would I mean? That's something I would ask here. Okay. So you'd be

Adam Cheng  15:43  
interested in like, yeah. So if you hit shift and then click on a node, you'll be able to like attach it as context. So oh,

Ryan Sheridan  15:51  
I see.

Adam Cheng  15:54  
So if you want to, yeah, ask about that one or something else.

Ryan Sheridan  15:57  
That work. Oh, I see.

Adam Cheng  15:58  
Yeah, it'll come up.

Ryan Sheridan  16:00  
What is

Adam Cheng  16:03  
this? So that one's just a. Oh, this is coming

Ryan Sheridan  16:04  
from up here. Yeah. So this is the okay. I'm trying to think. So, what would it do? You're saying this would modify the tree, is the idea, or no?

John Dudley  16:30  
Yeah. So,

Adam Cheng  16:30  
actually, so there you'd have to press the green button. If you just hit enter, it defaults to the sort of ask mode instead of advise mode. But we can see what it says, I guess, but essentially, what it'll do is it'll create some sort of, it'll work with you, I guess, to create some sort of snippet in which it it'll know what changes to make for the next time, and it'll pass it off to the actual model that generates the tree, so that it can like take that into consideration when it does the next generation? So, so if you might have like a batch of changes, you might want to submit all at once. You can do that on like sort of the next page if if you can like review the edits and then submit it for for changes for the next generation.

Ryan Sheridan  17:14  
Okay, yeah. So let's try that. Okay. So what it gave me. What is this one? Position 40-eight is a T. Okay, so. And then, if I want to edit, like you're saying, I would hold Shift and essentially put the, you know, my my comment in the box again,

Adam Cheng  18:24  
and then you just click the like green button, advise button, and it would generate some sort of a sort of yeah summary of of what you like changed.

Ryan Sheridan  18:34  
Okay.

Adam Cheng  19:16  
Yeah. So it'll say what it thinks it should do.

Ryan Sheridan  19:22  
What is it think it's an artifact? Just because I'm telling it, I guess.

Adam Cheng  19:26  
I guess yeah, you're you're instructing it that it's an artifact, so it's sort of assuming you're the expert who like knows that it's the artifact. But yeah, I guess you can you can ask.

John Dudley  19:43  
Yeah, probably should be clear, Adam. This the agent that is talking to you here is not the deft agent, so the deft agent is considerably more intelligent than this one, right?

Ryan Sheridan  19:53  
Oh yeah, this

Adam Cheng  19:54  
is sort of an auxiliary agent that does have access to sort of the the the whole tree and and the data, but it won't be as powerful and have like the full context. But I think in the future we want it to have more of the literature context as well, so it could be more, I guess, academically helpful. But I think the idea here mostly is that it'd be able to sort of just assume that you're the expert and you'll and you're the one who's making the changes, and it'll just help you make those changes in sort of like a natural language way for like future generations.

Ryan Sheridan  20:29  
No, it seems useful. Yeah, I mean, one thing that sort of comes to mind when I go through it is, I mean, there's a lot of text. Is there, you know, because we're, you know, you're analyzing like these sequences, I mean, I guess it's hard. Is there any way to like somehow provide the actual kind of sequence motif, or you know, for the feature somehow? I know that can be complicated because some of the features aren't just oh, there's a G here or an A here. It's like oh, the GC content's higher up upstream or something like that. So perhaps not, but

Adam Cheng  21:08  
yeah. I mean, I think that's a valid point. I think we somebody else also raised that feedback too. It could be useful to actually see the sequence right somewhere in the interface.

Ryan Sheridan  21:17  
Yeah.

Adam Cheng  21:18  
Yeah. Yeah.

Ryan Sheridan  21:19  
It's nice. You know, because you sort of have to click through every each of them and then read, obviously read about it, yeah, which is fine, yeah, but yeah,

Adam Cheng  21:31  
okay, but yeah, that's that's useful feedback to

Ryan Sheridan  21:37  
have, yeah,

John Dudley  21:38  
great,

Adam Cheng  21:40  
yeah, just to be mindful of the time. Yeah, if if there's any, I guess, other major insights or are, I guess, things that you noticed here. Yeah, feel free to let us know. But yeah, I guess is there anything else major you think that we haven't discussed yet?

Ryan Sheridan  22:01  
Probably not. Where one question: Where do these these prompts come from? This is from the death agent.

Adam Cheng  22:08  
That's from the death agent. Yes.

Ryan Sheridan  22:09  
Okay. Describing each one. Yeah. Okay. Should I stop sharing then?

Adam Cheng  22:15  
Sure. Yeah, that's fine. So I guess first, if you just continue on in the survey there will be some like follow up numerical questions so yeah just go through those and let let me know when you're done with them.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
